5.8. CHAPTER ONE
Chapter one should be between a Minimum of 2 pages and Maximum of 3 pages and consist of
the following sections
i. Introduction: Introduction of the project area; How it operates and how the problem exists
ii. Background of the Study – is a minimum of ½ page and maximum of 1 page
a. This is usually a detailed background information about the project/ research area
and about the client. It should be clear on what business the client is involved in
and how operations are currently conducted.
iii. Problem Statement(s)
a. This is a statement of the problem the project is intended to address. It should clearly
show the problem in the light of the project research and its contribution to the
solution. Ideally it should originate from the way the organization currently
performs its functions. Each problem should be stated clearly with a brief
explanation on how it arises from the functions be undertaken.
iv. Objectives: -
Clear, concise “SMART” objectives should be provided including project/ research and
system development related objectives.
(S - Specific, M - Measurable, A - Achievable, R- Realistic/Relevant, T- Time bound/boxed.
The supervisor should guide the student on the minimum and maximum number of
objectives as per his/her project. Key words like Investigate, develop and analyze should be
used to list objectives
v. Scope and Limitation of the Study – a brief description of the project scope – what
was covered and what was not and why?.
vi. Justification;- student should justify their project by indicating the interestingness and
challenge that the project presents, the timeliness of the idea, the possible advantages
that realization of such a project would bring.
vii. Project Risk and Mitigation;- This section should contain a list of project risks and the
mitigations to these risks.
viii. Budget and Resources;-This should generally address all the envisaged resources that will
enable the development of the system to succeed. The key items are hardware, software,
human and any other costs that will be incurred.
ix. Project Schedule:- a brief description of the project work break down structure. Project
Gantt and Network diagram clear showing the Critical path should be included in the
appendix section
5.11. CHAPTER FOUR: SYSTEM ANALYSIS AND REQUIREMENT MODELING
This is a Minimum of 8 pages and Maximum of 10 pages.
The chapter should address at least the following areas:-
• Description on how the current system works using system analysis modelling tools such as
flow charts, DFDs, Use cases, UML etc.
• How the facts and the data gathered including the methods used
• Requirement definitions and modelling of the Current
• Requirement definitions and specifications of the project
5.12. CHAPTER FIVE: SYSTEM DESIGN
This is a minimum of 7 and Maximum of 10 pages.
This section should consist of a description of the system design, database design (conceptual,
logical and physical) using an appropriate modelling too